So we got our project card.
The next thing we need to do
obviously bring it in here.
We just got to figure out, how do we
get the data for the projects, though.
So let's think about this.
Let's talk about the different use cases.
So let's talk about this one first.
Where did we get the data for
this greeting card?
The bigger the data in the page,
the bigger the data in the card itself.
You sure?
Let's see,
let's go to the greeting, uh-huh.
We got the data and the component itself.
The data responsible for the greeting
card is in the greeting card itself,
itself contained, and
we didn't get this in the page.
We could've,
there's nothing wrong with that.
We totally could've gotten the data from
the page, pass it down as a prop, and
it would've worked, but
we would not be able to do this.
We would not be able to see it loading
like this independently because its data
would have been bound to the page and
that data would have got
fetched when the page loaded.
Whereas now, the data requirements for
this component is not bound to the page,
it's bound to itself.
So the page and this component can
load independently from each other.
>> And that's gonna be true for
all the components.
Or that's the idea.
>> That's the idea, exactly.
The idea is to push the data fetching
requirements down as far as you can to
the component that needs it and
do it there.
That way you can load them individually
from each other versus making
the page have to wait for all of its
children to load just to show something.
We want to show something
meaningful immediately and
everything else can show
up when it's ready,
you just handle it with a fallback, with
a loading page or a suspense fallback and
you have these nice, for lack of better
words, reactive, you know, apps.
It's not new, people have been
building apps like this for a while.
It's just a lot of setup to do it.
So it's quite a lot having to do it.
Like you have to use something like,
you know, finite state machines or
something like that for your UI to
really hone that in and that's so
repetitive and redundant even
though I do like using them.
Okay, so we had to get the data and
the greeting card internally, but for
the project but but that makes sense
because there's only one greeting card and
it's always the same, but for
the projects, each one of these products
are different and there's gonna
be many projects on the screen.
So would we be getting the data for
the projects in the project card itself?
Or rename it, the project card singular.
Would we be getting that
in the project card itself?
Or what would we have to
get that somewhere else?
Have to get it somewhere else?
>> I think it's in the card.
>> Think it's in the card?
>> Where you described it earlier.
>> Okay, so let's walk through that.
So if we were to get the data for
the project card in
the project component,
>> You've got to generate project cards.
We've got to generate project cards.
So how would we do that?
>> There's many of those.
>> Yeah.
So because of that, we'll have to probably
do it on the page because only the page,
the thing, the container that's
responsible for laying these cards out,
needs to know how many cards to lay out.
So, therefore,
this container as in this page,
is probably going to hold the
responsibility of getting the projects.
Because each one of these projects doesn't
know that there's more projects to go
next to it and
it doesn't have control over, like this
project can't put this project next to it.
But this this page can, this layout can.
So because of that, the page itself will
probably be doing the data fetching for
the project which is
different than this one.
This one didn't need the page.
This greeting card didn't need the page to
do the product, the fetching for the data.
Because it's self contained it knows that
it needs data it doesn't need to be aware
of another one next to it or
anything like that, it's just one.
So it's totally fine but
in the case of this one where we have to
loop over them and put them on the page.
The page is the one I mean think
about where you're gonna do the map.
If this was an array of data,
where are you gonna do data dot map?
Is it gonna be in the individual card?
Or is it gonna be the thing
that's containing them, right?
So unless we make another component
that wraps all of these and
put the data fetching in that,
which we can, we'll have to put it in the
next pair, which in this case is the page.
Does that make sense?
Okay, let's do that.
So we're just gonna make get data,
that's kind of the thing that I'm
following here and
we'll just have to do a query here.
And then we can use that
inside of our page.
So let's go to our page
inside of dashboard
Our dashboard home.
There we go.
And we're going to make
a function called getData.
It's going to be async.
We're going to await a delay.
It'd be super dramatic here.
And let's just delay for
like, two seconds.
And then imagine this was an API
route that was protected.
And someone was trying to get data.
What would be the first thing you'd have
to do before you went to the database
to get them to get their data?
>> Check, make sure they're authenticated.
>> Exactly.
We've got to check to make sure they're
authenticated.
So that's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna use our getUserFromCookies, so
we'll say user = await
getUserFromCookie and pass in cookies.
And notice we had to do this
the same way in the greetings.
We have to do that here too.
So in a lot of these fetching
functions that you'll use for
your server components that
are on protected pages,
you'll find yourself authenticating the
user most of the time which if you think
ahead you can just build
a higher order function for this.
You could do something a little,
just be like with auth,
you just wrap everything,
right and that'll do it for you.
I'm almost positive that's what
people are gonna start doing.
But for us, we're just using a function.
So we got our user.
The next thing we wanna do is we
wanna get all the projects for
the current user, right?
So we can use Prisma for that.
So we can say,
projects = await db.projects.
It's still crazy the fact that I'm writing
a database query, and a component at it,
still blows my mind right now.
And then we'll say findMany, like that,
where we use where clause here.
And basically, we just want to
grab the ones that whose owner is
the one that signed in and make sure
we include tasks cuz we need tasks
to be able to compute
this stuff down here.
And by default, it won't include tasks.
So let's do that.
So we'll say where owner ID is user ID.
Right?
This is just freaking out because
it's like this is probably no and
that's why I put that question mark there.
And then we just want to include tasks.
True.
So now we got our projects.
And then we just return the projects.
I guess I had it in an object there, so
I'll be consistent and do the same thing.
I think this is a good practice,
because this is simple but
I would imagine you will you might have
more data needs other than just one query.
You might do a lot of stuff in here so you
can send them all back here because I mean
I guess you could also just make more
functions and just call all of them here,
but then we get into parallel
versus serial data loading.
And we could talk about that in
a production V2 version of next JS,
where how to optimize parallel
async data fetching and
server components versus serial and
when to do it and how to do it.
It's basically like a prefetch but for
data, it's kind of crazy how that works.
But we can get into that later because
it's kind of complicated but for now,
yeah, I'm just going to do that and
then we can get our projects.
Equals awaits get data like that, we've
got to restructure this structure this.
And now that we have our projects,
by the way, don't forget to destructure.
I didn't put that here, but
you gotta destructure it if
it's an object like that.
Now that we have our projects, we can just
loop over them and create this link for
them around a project card so
we can actually click on them.
So let's do that.
So if you go down to the JSX you can see
right here it says projects map here, so
you just want to put it here.
So you can just say,
projects.mapGet a project.
And then we're gonna have a div here and
inside this div we're
gonna have a link and
then inside this link we're
gonna have a project cart.
We go, okay.
For the div we got some classes
here we got a 1/3 and a p3.
So we'll say class name with
is 1/3 padding is three.
On this link, we need a href.
href is going to be dynamic cuz it's
going to go to, look at the URL here.
It's going to go to /project/ID.
So we'll say /project/project.id.
Like that.
And this project cart
takes a project Like that,
and this is freaking out because
it wants me to put a key.
And I'll do it just so
it goes away cuz it's annoying.
I'll just do a project.id.
Cool, now we have our projects.
So let's go check it out and
see what happens.
Do we actually get some projects here?
Loading, loading, loading.
I didn't get any projects.
Do I have projects here?
Maybe I don't have any projects.
Let's see.
I'm going to log that.
So it didn't error.
Yeah, it looks like I just
don't have any projects.
>> Yeah,
we want to sign in through our seed user.
>> Yeah.
I need to sign in through my seed user.
I guess I'll do that.
Let me do that.
Let me go.
To sign in try to sign in there I
think it is what user at email and
I think it's password, maybe.
I don't think it's gonna work.
Now, I see Alex is gonna work
now because it's trying to like,
it's trying to re-save the password.
Yeah.
Not hashed.
But now it's trying to compare to hashed.
So we got to go back into the seed and
just hash the password.
And that makes sense.
Go down here and hash this.
I'm gonna run my seed again.
There we go, so I'm gonna create
a database so that the hashing of
the passwords in our seed script actually
goes through because of the up cert.
So mpx prisma migrates, let''s see help.
I wanna say it's resets,
but yeah, migrate reset,
which I think runs the seat for
us as well.
If not, we'll just run it again after.
Yeah, so it's running the seat for us.
Okay, cool.
Password, looks like it was hash.
So let's start this thing.
It's already stopped and started again.
And let's go check it out.
Where is it?
Bring it over here, okay?
So if we go to sign in Or
sign in, there we go.
Let's try to sign in with our seed user.
There we go.
It's trying to do something, there it is.
So it's because we have
that delay on the projects.
That two second delay.
Okay, so now we're in it looks like
our projects are loaded up somehow we
got 10 out of 10 completed.
How lucky is that [LAUGH] with the
randomness but that's the way it's seeded.
I guess or math is wrong one of the two.